# bukkit.yml - Guide

The bukkit.yml file is one of the configuration files used by the bukkit, craftbukkit, spigot, and paper engines. Many people overlook this file, but it allows you to configure several useful settings that can improve server performance or slightly alter its behavior. The file is divided into several sections, each containing specific engine settings. Unfortunately, depending on the server version and engine, the settings may appear in different orders, and some, if you want to change them, may need to be manually added to the file.

## settings
This section handles the more general settings regarding server operation.

### allow-end
This option controls whether the End is enabled or disabled on the server. If the End is disabled, players will not be able to access it.

* Set to false to disable the End.
* Set to true to enable the End.
* The default value is **true**.

### warn-on-overload
This option controls whether the server console will display the message "_[WARNING] Can't keep up! Did the system time change, or is the server overloaded?_" when the server detects a performance issue.

* Set to false to disable overload warnings.
* Set to true to enable overload warnings.
* The default value is **true**.

### permissions-file
This option specifies the name of the file used by the engine to handle permissions.

**This is not the file where you set player permissions. You should not modify it, as doing so could potentially break your server. To create ranks on the server, use a plugin like [LuckPerms](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/luckperms-an-advanced-permissions-plugin.28140/).**

* The default value is **permissions.yml**.

### update-folder
This option sets the name of the folder in the _plugins/_ directory from which the server will copy plugin files upon restarting the server.

You can place .jar plugin files here that you want to install without restarting the server immediately. Simply put the plugin files in a folder with this name, and the server should automatically load them when it is restarted.

* The default value is **update**, meaning the plugins should be placed in the _plugins/update/_ directory.

### use-exact-login-location
This option controls the server's behavior when a player logs in. Normally, the game checks whether the player's logout position is safe for logging in, e.g., ensuring there are no blocks that could trap or suffocate the player. If such obstacles are detected, the player is moved higher until they are in a safe position to spawn.

* This option does not appear by default in the _bukkit.yml_ file generated by the Spigot engine for version 1.14.4. If you want to change the default value, you must manually add this option to the section. Be sure to pay attention to the correct number of spaces!
* Set to false to maintain default behavior.
* Set to true to have the player suffocate if their logout position is obstructed by blocks.
* The default value is **false**.

### world-container
This option sets the directory where all the server world files are stored. If this option is not present in the settings section, no special folder will be used. If your server is on craftserve, you do not need to worry about this, as it is only useful in very specific situations, which would not occur on craftserve. **Changing this value may cause the map preview on the craftserve website to stop working. It is better not to change it.**

* This option does not appear by default in the _bukkit.yml_ file generated by the Spigot engine for version 1.14.4. If you want to change the default value, you must manually add this option to the section. Be sure to pay attention to the correct number of spaces!

### plugin-profiling
This option controls whether the _/timings_ command should be available. Enabling it may cause a slight increase in server load, but it can provide valuable information about the performance of plugins and their impact on server performance.

* Set to false to disable plugin profiling.
* Set to true to enable plugin profiling.
* The default value is **false**.

### connection-throttle
This option sets the number of milliseconds between a player's disconnection and their ability to reconnect. If a player tries to reconnect to the server before the required time has passed, they will be disconnected with the message _Connection throttled_.

* Setting very low values can be a bad idea, as even one person repeatedly connecting and disconnecting can significantly burden the server.
* The default value is **4000**.

### query-plugins
This option controls whether the server should list its plugins when queried (e.g., via the site https://dinnerbone.com/minecraft/tools/status/). If you want to hide your plugins for some reason, disabling this option is a good idea.

* Set to false to disable the display of plugins when queried.
* Set to true to enable the display of plugins when queried.
* The default value is **true**.

### deprecated-verbose
This option controls whether the server should log warnings when a plugin tries to use deprecated functions that should no longer be used. This is useful if you are developing a plugin, but for most cases, the default setting is adequate. The warning helps you notice if a plugin you're using is outdated and may need to be updated or replaced to ensure compatibility after engine updates.

* Set to false to completely disable warnings.
* Set to default to enable warnings that the plugin author hasn't silenced.
* Set to true to enable all warnings.
* The default value is **default**.

### shutdown-message
This option sets the message that will be displayed to players when they are kicked from the server during shutdown via the _/stop_ command.

* Colors can be added to the message using color codes according to the [template](https://static.planetminecraft.com/files/resource_media/screenshot/1807/example2-1518839184.png), but instead of the ampersand symbol &, use the paragraph symbol ยง.
* The default value is **Server closed**.


## spawn-limits
This section controls the spawn limits for various types of natural mobs. The limits only apply to mobs that spawn near players; mobs far from players are not loaded and thus are not considered. Additionally, mobs spawned by mob spawners and commands have their own independent limits. Lowering the limits can improve server performance.

### monsters
This option sets the spawn limit for monsters (skeletons, zombies, creepers, etc.) in the world.

* The default value is **70**.

### animals
This option sets the spawn limit for animals (cows, horses, cats, parrots, etc.) in the world.

* The default value is **15**.

### water-animals
This option sets the spawn limit for water animals (squid, fish, etc.) in the world.

* The default value is **5**.

### ambient
This option sets the spawn limit for ambient animals (bats, etc.) in the world.

* The default value is **15**.


## chunk-gc
This section handles settings related to garbage collection for server RAM, specifically for chunks that should not be loaded but are not removed from memory for some reason. This is a rare occurrence nowadays, but if your server is consuming increasing amounts of memory for unknown reasons, you can consider enabling this option as a way to prevent memory waste.

### period-in-ticks
This option controls the time the server will wait between checks for unnecessary world chunks loaded into memory. The time is expressed in ticks, and a smoothly running server executes 20 ticks per second. Since this is not a lightweight operation, running it too frequently may unnecessarily burden your server.

* Set to 0 to disable chunk gc.
* The default value is **600**, meaning the chunk gc will run approximately every 30 seconds.

### load-threshold
This option controls the number of loaded world chunks required to trigger chunk gc. If the number of loaded chunks is less than the set value, chunk gc will not run even after the specified time.

* This option does not appear by default in the _bukkit.yml_ file generated by the Spigot engine for version 1.14.4. If you want to change the default value, you must manually add this option to the section. Be sure to pay attention to the correct number of spaces!
* Set to 0 to disable chunk gc.
* The default value is **0**, meaning chunk gc is disabled by default. Typically, there is no need to enable it.

## ticks-per
This section handles settings related to the frequency at which various events occur in the game world. **A healthy server executes 20 ticks per second, so setting a time interval to 20 ticks means the event will occur every second!**

### animal-spawns
This option sets the number of ticks the server should wait between attempts to spawn animals (cows, horses, cats, parrots, etc.) in the game world.

* Setting a value less than zero will use the value 400.
* The default value is **400**.

### monster-spawns
This option sets the number of ticks the server should wait between attempts to spawn monsters (skeletons, zombies, creepers, etc.) in the game world.

* Setting a value less than zero will use the value 1.
* The default value is **1**.

### autosave
This option sets the number of ticks the server should wait between saves to disk.

**For servers on craftserve, this setting will have little effect, as the control panel will automatically force saves to disk at intervals. This setting can only make the save happen more frequently!**

* Setting a value less than zero will use the value 0.
* The default value is **6000**.

## aliases
This section is a remnant of the old method for defining command aliases in the game. Aliases are now located in the commands.yml file.

## database
This section is used to configure database access for plugins that want to use a database provided by the server engine. Unfortunately, there are very few such plugins, so we will not discuss this section.

## worlds
This section is used to configure settings for worlds that are loaded by default by the engine. Since this can also be configured in the server.properties file, we will not discuss this section.

###### Source: https://bukkit.gamepedia.com/Bukkit.yml
